
The character of Memorie King
<p>Why not talk about her flaws first. She was stubborn. Not necessarily a
flaw. Usually she was right when she dug in her heels. Just about the only
negative example is her misapprehension of her back pain. Or maybe on some
level she always knew…but she chose to live life rather than be an invalid. She
would never choose her sister’s life of perpetual illness. Mem was a little too
concerned with possessions but not to the extent that other Americans are.
Other than those she had no flaws I could discern.</p>
<p>Radiant self confidence was her usual mood. When that weakened; as when she
doubted she would get the grant for the witchery…the very weakness made her
more loveable and she was already almost unbearably so. But ordinarily her self
confidence drew people to her and made good things happen. She made me and
others feel safe in the most mysterious way. It was as if she knew something
about life that we mortals could never know. And not just any
something…something strangely affirmative and inspiring that flowed from her
spiritual beliefs. Her outlook was usually all positive; no suffering demigod
on a stick for her.</p>
<p>Memorie had no enemies; well, maybe an ex-boyfriend or two but other than
them. What fools they must have been not to fall hopelessly in love with
someone as replete with character as Mem. She probably should have despised
them finally for their blindness and lack of appreciation. But other than the
obligatory pillow talk at the start of our relationship they were never
mentioned as bitterness was not her métier.</p>
<p>When I met her she was upset about her boss. Mem had turned down the co-op
management job didn’t want to work full time and did not like to give orders.
But Sunshine (or Cloudy Weather as I called her, always in a foul mood,) would
not let Mem off; she had to work every weekend and had therefore just missed
Wild Herb Weekend. But they weren’t enemies. After Mem quit and went to work at
Beans ‘n Berries to my surprise, they became quite chummy. Mem forgave CW but
without ostentation; seemingly without even trying. She held no grudges so
forgiveness was easy.</p>
<p>Mem had the most even temper of anyone I have ever known. I saw her angry
only a few times and even then it was muted as if she felt no one could bring
her down to their level by behaving badly. When in pain she got irritable but
she never expressed anger. Did she keep it in? Control it? I never got that
impression; seemingly nothing bothered her enough to cause rage.</p>
<p>She was definitely an empath. When she helped others she seemed to bask in
the pleasure and assistance she gave. Making other people feel good made her
feel better. Empathy leads directly to another key  to Mem’s character; her
antiauthoritarianism. She did not like to be ordered around but most
importantly she did not like to order others around either. That’s one reason
(in addition to her back pain) that she turned down the full time management
position at the co-op. Another example, the first time I saw this attribute,
had to do with my then friend Carol B. We visited her and Mem made some
chocolate herbal adaptogens as a gift. They’re a kind of healthy candy. Carol
loved them and wanted more. But she went about getting them the wrong way. Way
too brusqly she tried to order another batch. Mem demurred. Carol persisted.
Money was offered. Wrong tactic. Mem continued to refuse and after we left Mem
made it clear that they were not going to be friends.</p>

<p>Mem’s attitude toward money was part and parcel of her sweet character. She
never tried to bargain or beat anyone down. She used money to show her basic
generosity. She did not sniff at the stuff however. A good day at the farmers
market always put her in a tip-top mood.</p>
<p>Memorie’s personality was very much a product of the Hegelian dialectic. Not
consciously of course. But from what she told me and my observations it became
obvious that growing up with an older sister who was authoritarian as well as
rigidly conformist pushed Mem into the direction of freedom and individuality.
While her sister was spending their father’s money on social climbing Mem
insisted on working her way through NC State. I wonder why she chose to go to
school there. She certainly must have come to love Raleigh though as that was
where she spent the largest portion of her life. At any rate it was while
working at a barbeque joint while going to school that she hurt her back the
first time. However all this info belongs in the Mem and the sickness industry
section. And her name…King’s man but elided; trimmed. She was noble however. I
wonder how much the name might have influenced her character…she would try to
live up with it. Good thing her name wasn’t shoup or teague as she did have a
strong sex drive. Wonderfully strong.</p>
<p>So as her sister was setting a lamentable example of selfish publican
phallus worship Mem joined the counterculture and all that entailed. Become a
massage therapist was certainly a leap in that direction tho compared with what
she was leaving, farrier’s helper, it was an improvement at least in respect to
income and personal independence.</p>
<p>And it was completely in character. Memorie loved doing things. Accomplishing
tasks. Making the world a little bit better.  Helping people by making them
feel better and by providing good food and herbs. When things went wrong; and
the first year we were together there were problems. by joining me she too on
the burden of  the tractor swindle that was ongoing. Even when we were
attacked; tractor tires slashed, truckwindshield broken, finally the tractor
taken away;  Memorie’s reaction was to get to work. She would find something to
do that fed her sense of accomplishment.</p>
