Memorie and the Sickness Industry Part 1: Peripateia

<p>Memories' back problems began when she was working at a Bar-b-que joint in
Raleigh while attending NC State. She picked up a heavy can and immediately
realized she had injured herself. She went to a back man who told her, "you are
too young to have a damaged disk" and didn't bother with an x-ray. Perhaps he
was flirting with her instead of doing his job. It would be decades before she
received a correct diagnosis.</p>

<p>She had severe scoliosis which in her case unusually manifested itself by her
ramrod straight back and posture. No bend at all. It's possible that
generations of soldiery had via epigenetics bequeathed her this problem. Her
grandfather was a professional soldier when that was an unusual occupation in
the US. At any rate, from that time on she was never completely free of back
pain. She did have back surgery before she moved to Asheville but her problems
continued.</p>

<p>Memorie was a professional massage therapist who believed in massage as a
healing tool. And in the past it had assuaged her discomfort so she had been
getting regular massage for many years. But everything in our lives was
otherwise great. We had wed on the Solstice of 2012, which meant a lot to her;
though not to me; I felt we were a fated couple almost from the beginning. But
on the day in question, July 24 2013, she had gone to have her massage from a
muscular young lady who had her clinic in downtown Propst Crossroads. But when
she came home from her session it was clear that something was terribly wrong.
She had barely been able to drive home. It was too late to call the orthopedic
clinic and Mem refused to go to the hospital. We hunted all over for
painkillers but could find nothing stronger than valium. Memorie had given all
the opioids she had saved for just such an emergency to a friend in need. Next
day we called Western Carolina Orthopedics but they told us that she should
make an appointment with their Morganton location. That was a fateful error. We
called and an appointment was  made for Monday. The weekend was a sleepless
nightmare for both of us.</p>

Then we came under the ministration of the evil Dr. Jason Zuck. After a cursory exam and an x-ray he informed us that he thought the injury that was clearly visible on the screen was an old one, and that we were marijuana addicts cruising for a fix. He refused to diagnose her and refused to prescribe any painkillers. Neither Memorie nor I believe in Hell, but fundamentalist sadists like Zuck and his staff deserve punishment. Unending torment would really be too good for him. He did schedule an MRI for Friday but on Wednesday they called and postponed it until the following Friday. At this point Mem had been in pain for a week; the kind of distress that most people would have found unbearable.

Memorie called her personal physician and her only suggestion was the emergency room. Thus began our series of 6 trips to Frye. Every other day the pain would become unbearable and she would have another injection of dilaudid. On the fifth trip one of Zook’s partners, Dr. Maxie, noticed her suffering and scheduled an immediate MRI. There was no reason, other than the enjoyment that some “Xtians “ get from making others suffer, that she could not have had the MRI two weeks earlier.

But why did Dr.Z think we were “Marijuana addicts”. Morganton is a small town and there is little to do besides drink, seduce each other, and gossip. And I had been the subject of much gossip. Both my first wife, Dr. Carol Osteyee and faux waldensian Steve Dimeter had found it necessary to inform the world that I had, at times at least, used cannabis. Dimeter as an Xian, and the descendent of a Bulgarian Nazi, had informed anyone who would listen that his brother-in-law Allan Huffman, an alcoholic and serial philanderer, had on at least one occasion smoked with me. What did he have to gain from this? Well he wanted to distance himself from me at a time when we were both employed in Valdese. But mainly he is a believer in zero sum economics; the theory that the only way to gain wealth is to take it from someone else. At least that is my guess. Dr. Osteyee is another story. She seems to have believed that narking on me would raise sympathy for her. Perhaps it might even increase her chances to gain trophy wife status; something that was never going to happen. Thus Memorie was tormented as a sop to this evil woman’s vanity.

The emergency MRI (we had been told that the MRI was unavailable but actually WCO owned a machine then parked in Newton, so Zook wanted us to wait for it not only to torture us but also to add to his bottom line)  revealed that Mem had suffered an “exploded T-8 vertebra”. How she bore this pain is beyond me. So from 7/24 until 8/12 she suffered unnecessarily. Not only that; but if she had received treatment 3 weeks earlier she might be alive today. Congratulations Xians, more innocent blood down your nasty cruel gullets. Will your thirst never be sated?
